Availability:
Adapt to changing demands.
Environment: ON-prem, Cloud,Hybrid, Multi-cloud
Management: On-demand(ie GKE), Self mananged
Scalability
Security: Authentication 
Access Management - RBAC - Authorization
Policies
Container Resource
Choose Deployment Tools: 
      Kubeadm
      ClusterAPI
      kops
      Rancher
      Portainer
      kubespray: A composition of Ansible playbooks, inventory, provisioning tools, and domain knowledge for generic OS/Kubernetes clusters configuration management tasks)

Container Runntimes:You need to install a container runtime into each node in the cluster so that Pods can run there. 
      Containerd
      CRI-O
      Docker Engine
      Mirantis Container Runtime


The Linux kernel does not allow IPv4 packets to be routed between interfaces
sysctl parameters, which are kernel parameters that can be modified at runtime, can be used to fine-tune network behavior and other system aspects within containers.
The parameters cover various subsystems such as:  "sudo sysctl -a"
      kernel (common prefix: kernel.)
      networking (common prefix: net.)
      virtual memory (common prefix: vm.)
      MDADM (common prefix: dev.)
      More subsystems are described in Kernel docs.
Sysctls with no namespace are called node-level sysctls
 consider nodes with special sysctl settings as tainted within a cluster.

ENABLLE IPV4 packet forwarding using sysctl
      # sysctl params required by setup, params persist across reboots
      cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf
      net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
      EOF
      
      # Apply sysctl params without reboot
      sudo sysctl --system

cgroup: cgroupfs , sysytemd
control groups are used to constrain resources that are allocated to processes.

Both the kubelet and the underlying container runtime need to interface with control groups to enforce resource management for pods and containers.
and set resources such as cpu/memory requests and limits. To interface with control groups, the kubelet and the container runtime need to use the same cgroup driver and are configured the same.
      apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
      kind: KubeletConfiguration
      ...
      cgroupDriver: systemd

CERTIFICATES Management:Kubernetes requires PKI certificates for authentication over TLS.
kubeadm automatically generates certs if used for implementation.

Namespace: used for environment(dev,test,prod) isolation, permissions,Security (RBAC) & resource allocation

kubernetes resources/objects used to deploy application include:
   Pod : Does NOT Scale,short lifecycle, No Sellf-healing
or    
 controllerManagers:
     a. Replication Controller
            kubectl scale xxx
     b. ReplicaSet
            kubectl scale xxx
     c. DaemonSet
      Use a DaemonSet when it is important that a copy of a Pod always run on all or certain hosts, if the DaemonSet provides node-level functionality that allows other Pods to run correctly on that particular node.
           running a cluster storage daemon on every node
            running a logs collection daemon on every node
            running a node monitoring daemon on every node
            running a networking helper tool
            .spec.template.spec.nodeSelector, .spec.template.spec.affinity
      d.StatefulSets
            kubectl scale xxx
            Stable, unique network identifiers.
            Stable, persistent storage.
            Ordered, graceful deployment and scaling.
            Ordered, automated rolling updates.
      e.Deployment
      Use a Deployment for stateless services, like frontends, where scaling up and down the number of replicas and rolling out updates are more important than controlling exactly which host the Pod runs on. 
      A Deployment provides declarative updates for Pods and ReplicaSets.
      Deployment Controller changes the actual state to the desired state at a controlled rate.
       kubectl scale xxx
     f. Volume
     g. Job 

Exposing/accessing applications = Service Discovery:
    Service Types:
    ClusterIP
    NodePort
    LoadBalancer
    ExternalName  
    ingress 
    networkPolicy 
